---
layout: not_mainpage
---

*Next Year in America* is a book I wrote that tells the story of the roughly two million Jews who immigrated to the United States from Eastern Europe between 1881 and 1924. But rather than taking the traditional approach of telling this story through old primary sources and aging esoteric secondary sources, I tell their story through the lives and experiences of my own ancestors. 

Don't get me wrong, there's plenty of history in this book. Indeed, it begins with the origins of the Jews in Eastern Europe, and begins paying close attention once some familiar characters--Poland, Russia, Ukraine--begin to emerge in the 17th and 18th centuries. It is at this point where we meet our first few characters: my seventh-great-grandparents, Rubin and Fayga, who lived in the town of Staszow, Poland in the late 18th century. 

We continue our journey through the age of the Russian Empire, an age that proved so difficult for the Jews--just about entirely due to the Empire's own doing--that two million out of the approximately five million who lived within its borders decided to leave, almost exclusively to the United States. Once we arrive there, we find all kinds of interesting stories to tell: from rags to riches (and sometimes then back to rags), of religious reformation and cultural change, of the lasting legacy of the immigrant experience and intergenerational trauma. 

The book evolved out of my own curiosity about my ancestors, about whom I knew very little (and, in the grand scheme of things, I still know very little about). Where did they come from, and what was life like there? Why--and how, exactly--did they leave? What did they do when they got here, and how did they adapt to the very different world of 20th century America? But while I write about my own ancestors and use their lives to retell the story of their generation as a whole, you can still plug in your own ancestors, too. After all, their experiences were likely very similar--their hometowns in Eastern Europe, their reasoning for coming to the United States, and how they got on with their lives once they were here. As James Joyce wrote, "in the particular is contained the universal."
